.Dd March 27, 2026
.Dt GHOSTLINE_CLI 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ghostline_cli
.Nd transport-first TCP relay with candidate mutation, rules loading, PID discovery, and JSONL audit streams
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar listen_port upstream_host upstream_port
.Op options
.Nm
.Fl -search-pid Ar term
.Op search options
.Nm
.Fl -help-rules | -help-search | -help-examples | -help-cheatsheet
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a macOS-first TCP relay for observing traffic, staging mutation candidates, and preserving original delivery when mutation safety is not provable.
It supports:
.Bl -bullet
.It
raw live mutation
.It
byte-window mutation
.It
MQTT framing and PUBLISH mutation
.It
rules-driven configuration
.It
PID search for target discovery
.It
human-readable and JSONL audit streams
.El
.Sh CORE OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--mqtt-review-threshold"
.It Fl -start-hex Ar hex
Start marker for the byte-window plugin.
.It Fl -end-hex Ar hex
End marker for the byte-window plugin.
.It Fl -replace-text Ar text
Replacement body for matched windows.
.It Fl -raw-find-text Ar text
Find text for raw live mutation.
.It Fl -raw-live
Enable protocol-agnostic live raw mutation.
.It Fl -raw-chunk-bytes Ar n
Frame raw live traffic into fixed-size chunks.
.It Fl -mutate-direction Ar c2s|s2c|both
Choose which direction may mutate.
.It Fl -raw-review-threshold Ar n
Create review/action items for raw mutations at or above this byte size.
.It Fl -mqtt-review-threshold Ar n
Create review/action items for MQTT mutations at or above this payload size.
.It Fl -byte-review-threshold Ar n
Create review/action items for byte-window mutations at or above this payload size.
.It Fl -rewrite-u32-prefix
Rewrite a leading 4-byte big-endian body size.
.It Fl -max-plugin-buffer Ar n
Maximum bytes a protocol plugin may hold before fallback.
.It Fl -protocol-hint Ar name
Prefer a compiled-in plugin:
.Dq mqtt ,
.Dq rabbitmq ,
.Dq activemq ,
.Dq amqp ,
.Dq azure-service-bus ,
.Dq kafka ,
.Dq byte-window ,
or
.Dq raw-live .
.El
.Sh RULES OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--rules-var"
.It Fl -rules Ar path
Load external control rules from JSON, Jinja-style JSON, or a lightweight HCL/Terraform-style flat config.
.It Fl -rules-var Ar key=value
Template variable used when rendering Jinja-style rules.
.El
.Pp
Supported rule keys include:
.Bl -bullet
.It
listen_port, upstream_host, upstream_port
.It
protocol_hint, start_marker_hex, end_marker_hex
.It
replace_text, raw_find_text, raw_live, raw_live_mode
.It
raw_chunk_bytes, mutate_direction, rewrite_u32_prefix
.It
raw_review_threshold_bytes, mqtt_review_threshold_bytes
.It
byte_window_review_threshold_bytes, max_plugin_buffer_bytes
.It
audit_log_path, action_log_path, audit_json_path, action_json_path
.El
.Sh SEARCH OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--established-only"
.It Fl -search-pid Ar term
Search running TCP processes by command substring or PID.
.It Fl -search-port Ar port
Filter search results by local or remote TCP port.
.It Fl -search-state Ar state
Filter search results by TCP state such as
.Dq LISTEN
or
.Dq ESTABLISHED .
.It Fl -search-json
Emit search results as JSON.
.It Fl -listen-only
Restrict results to listening sockets.
.It Fl -established-only
Restrict results to established sockets.
.El
.Sh OUTPUT OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--actions-json"
.It Fl -audit-log Ar path
Write text audit events to the given file.
.It Fl -audit-json Ar path
Write audit events as JSONL.
.It Fl -action-log Ar path
Write text action items to the given file.
.It Fl -actions-json Ar path
Write action items as JSONL.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -bullet
.It
Search for a process:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ghostline_cli --search-pid ollama
.Ed
.It
Search for listeners on MQTT port 1883:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ghostline_cli --search-port 1883 --listen-only
.Ed
.It
Run raw live mutation:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ghostline_cli 7777 127.0.0.1 8888 \e
  --protocol-hint raw-live \e
  --raw-live \e
  --raw-find-text hello \e
  --replace-text patch \e
  --mutate-direction c2s
.Ed
.It
Run MQTT mutation:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ghostline_cli 7777 127.0.0.1 1883 \e
  --protocol-hint mqtt \e
  --replace-text patched-payload \e
  --mqtt-review-threshold 8
.Ed
.It
Run from JSON rules:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ghostline_cli 7777 127.0.0.1 8888 \e
  --rules examples/rules/raw-live.json
.Ed
.El
.Sh MAN PAGE
To open this man page from the repository root:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
MANPATH="$PWD/man:${MANPATH}" man ghostline_cli
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr man 1
